CONTRIBUTING.md, before:

Contributing to Frequenz Microgrid API
======================================


Build
=====

You can use `build` to simply build the source and binary distribution:

```sh
python -m pip install build
python -m build
```

Local development
=================

You need to make sure you have the `git submodules` updated:

```sh
git submodule update --init
```

If you want to manually compile the proto files you need to install the build
dependencies manually (sadly it seems like there is no way to install build
dependencies from the `pyproject.toml` file with a simple command):

```sh
python -m pip install grpcio-tools mypy-protobuf setuptools setuptools_scm[toml] wheel
```

Then you can compile the proto files by running:

```sh
python setup.py compile_proto
```

If you have any issues with these dependencies, please check the
`pyproject.toml` file and try installing the exact supported versions instead.


Releasing
=========

These are the steps to create a new release:

1. Get the latest head you want to create a release from.

1. Update the `RELEASE_NOTES.md` file if it is not complete, up to date, and
   clean from template comments (`<!-- ... ->`) and empty sections. Submit
   a pull request if an update is needed, wait until it is merged, and update
   the latest head you want to create a release from to get the new merged pull
   request.

3. Create a new signed tag using the release notes and
   a [semver](https://semver.org/) compatible version number with a `v` prefix,
   for example:

   ```sh
   git tag -s -F RELEASE_NOTES.md v0.0.1
   ```

4. Push the new tag.

5. A GitHub action will test the tag and if all goes well it will create
   a [GitHub
   Release](https://github.com/frequenz-floss/frequenz-api-microgrid/releases),
   create a new
   [announcement](https://github.com/frequenz-floss/frequenz-api-microgrid/discussions/categories/announcements)
   about the release, and upload a new package to
   [PyPI](https://pypi.org/project/frequenz-api-microgrid/) automatically.

6. Once this is done, reset the `RELEASE_NOTES.md` with the template:

   ```sh
   cp .github/RELEASE_NOTES.template.md RELEASE_NOTES.md
   ```

   Commit the new release notes and create a PR (this step should be automated
   eventually too).

7. Celebrate!

Commit message:

Use common proto API's pypi package in python lib
Python files for proto definitions in `frequenz-api-common` are no longer
being generated using protoc. Instead, the pypi package
`frequenz-api-common` is being added as a dependency to the python package
definition.
This is required, otherwise each proto library depending on
`frequenz-api-common` will generate its own python modules for
`frequenz-api-common`, resulting in multiple definition of the same common
structures.

Note that this forces the minimum required python version to be 3.11, as a
transitive dependency from the `frequenz-api-common` package.

Signed-off-by: Tiyash Basu <tiyash.basu@frequenz.com>

CONTRIBUTING.md, after:

Contributing to Frequenz Microgrid API
======================================


Build
=====

You can use `build` to simply build the source and binary distribution:

```sh
python -m pip install build
python -m build
```

Local development
=================

You need to make sure you have the `git submodules` updated:

```sh
git submodule update --init
```

If you want to manually compile the proto files you need to install the build
dependencies manually (sadly it seems like there is no way to install build
dependencies from the `pyproject.toml` file with a simple command):

```sh
python -m pip install grpcio-tools mypy-protobuf setuptools setuptools_scm[toml] wheel
```

Then you can compile the proto files by running:

```sh
python setup.py compile_proto
```

If you have any issues with these dependencies, please check the
`pyproject.toml` file and try installing the exact supported versions instead.


Upgrading dependencies
======================

If you want to update the dependency `frequenz-api-common`, then you need to
* update the submodule `frequenz-api-common`
* update the version of the `frequenz-api-common` package in `pyproject.toml`
* update the version of the `frequenz-api-common` package in
`minimum-requirements-ci.txt`

The version of `frequenz-api-common` used in all the three places mentioned
above should be the same.

Here is an example of upgrading the `frequenz-api-common` dependency to version
`v0.2.0`:
```sh
ver="0.2.0"

cd submodules/frequenz-api-common
git remote update
git checkout v${ver}
cd ../..

sed s/"frequenz-api-common == [0-9]\.[0-9]\.[0-9]"/"frequenz-api-common == ${ver}"/g -i pyproject.toml

sed s/"frequenz-api-common == .*"/"frequenz-api-common == ${ver}"/g -i minimum-requirements-ci.txt
```

Releasing
=========

These are the steps to create a new release:

1. Get the latest head you want to create a release from.

1. Update the `RELEASE_NOTES.md` file if it is not complete, up to date, and
   clean from template comments (`<!-- ... ->`) and empty sections. Submit
   a pull request if an update is needed, wait until it is merged, and update
   the latest head you want to create a release from to get the new merged pull
   request.

3. Create a new signed tag using the release notes and
   a [semver](https://semver.org/) compatible version number with a `v` prefix,
   for example:

   ```sh
   git tag -s -F RELEASE_NOTES.md v0.0.1
   ```

4. Push the new tag.

5. A GitHub action will test the tag and if all goes well it will create
   a [GitHub
   Release](https://github.com/frequenz-floss/frequenz-api-microgrid/releases),
   create a new
   [announcement](https://github.com/frequenz-floss/frequenz-api-microgrid/discussions/categories/announcements)
   about the release, and upload a new package to
   [PyPI](https://pypi.org/project/frequenz-api-microgrid/) automatically.

6. Once this is done, reset the `RELEASE_NOTES.md` with the template:

   ```sh
   cp .github/RELEASE_NOTES.template.md RELEASE_NOTES.md
   ```

   Commit the new release notes and create a PR (this step should be automated
   eventually too).

7. Celebrate!
